Process

1 - Follow LiveOverflow's Youtube Binary Exploitation Series
2 - Starfighter.io's RE game challenge
3 - Hackthebox.eu's reversing challenges


Notes -

Bin 0x04 LiveOverflow

Do not be intimidated by ASM. Basically the collection of registers (between 8-32 of them) are just used as variables for performing computational tasts. For example:
add eax 0x8
sub eax 0x5
(eax register will then show 0x3)

What does not fit in registers, lives in memory. (assigned memory space)
This stuff lives in the RAM when it's allocatedto memory. Got 16 gigs of ram? You can have 16 gigs worth of instructions (or there abouts). 

PUSH 0x5 = adds 5 bites to the top of the stack
POP eax = Copy the top of the stack (ESP) and store to the EAX register

Stuff that's running in memory is accessed much faster than disk written stuff. 

EIP = Instruction Pointer. What the program will do next. The control flow of the program is instructions that move the EIP register around to specific instructions. Jumps, Branches, Calls. 
Jump 0x2 = go to 0x2

Try out microcorruption.com


Bin 0x05 - Simple license crack

Using GDB!

gdb (path to binary)
set disassemble-flavor intel
disassemble main
 - drops the binary

First steps are to look for control flow - so read through the binary for known instructions. In this one, we can see a compare instruction (CMP) to see if something == 0x02. Does something equal 2? This is infact looking for 2 arguments. 

Then there is a JNE  (jump not equal. Do this IF NOT that) to a printf, which we know is going to print some text. 

Then we can see a STRCMP (string compare). If you dont know what the function is doing - try in terminal 'man 3 strcmp'

Run through!
Set a break at the start. (break *main)
then (run) the program. 
(info registers) will show you the current register positions. 
(si) steps instructions
(ni) steps and prints output

When looking at a program where we want to gain info on a control function - set a breakpoint before the instruction. (in this case, the last compare)
(continue) resumes after a breakpoint
(break *0x0000000000400607)

Check what this location is in dissasemble main

We can see here that it stops at the test EAX,EAX function. We can assume that the program is testing the licence key vs the hardcoded key. If it is a match, then the EAX register could equal 0. (true)

(set $eax=0)
(continue)
ACCESS GRANTED!

These are called Crackmes. All programs are crackable :). 

bin 0x06 

So another way of gaining information about executionflow is to read the ascii contents or hexdump of a file. Ascii of the compiled binary will come up with alot of apparent nonsense, because ascii can only display about half of the possible binary numbers (ie max 255). Open in a text editor or use hexdump -C.
The (strings) binary parses the file and pulls out useful strings. 

(strace) is another very useful binary which will trace system calls in an executable. Compiled c basically just uses Linux system functions to do stuff, for example printf uses the 'write' system call. 

(ltrace) does similar, except it traces the library calls. 

The software Hopper (£89) can attempt to decompile a binary back to C. This isnt exact, but a good representation of what the program looks like. This can be very useful. 

Radare2 is also a beast of a debugger. Practice stuff with this. 
Start with (r2 binaryname)
(aaa) auto analyse
(afl) print functions
(VV) enter visual mode.
Radare is hard - practice. 
